---
layout: default
title: About me
page-class: page--about
permalink: /about/
---

# About me

Hi there, I’m Harry; I am an [award-winning](https://thenetawards.com/)
Consultant Front-end Architect, writer, and speaker from the UK. I am
**[available for work](mailto:harry@csswizardry.com?subject=Let%E2%80%99s%20work%20together)
from the beginning of 2014**.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/content/me.jpg" alt="">
  <figcaption>
      On stage at <a href="http://2013.beyondtellerrand.com/">beyond tellerrand</a>.
      <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/stn1978/8899790026/">Photo</a> by
      <a href="https://twitter.com/stn1978">Stefan Nitzsche</a>.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Named <b>Young Developer of the Year</b> by net magazine, I was previously a
Senior Developer at [BSkyB](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BSkyB), and have worked
with clients including the <b>BBC</b>, the <b>NHS</b>, <b>Booking.com</b>, and
the <b>Financial Times</b>. I specialise in architecting, writing, and scaling
CSS for large sites, apps, and products in large-team environments.

I [write](http://csswizardry.com/2013/12/i-wrote-part-of-a-book/),
[work](http://csswizardry.com/work/),
[speak](https://speakerdeck.com/csswizardry), and [run
workshops](http://csswizardry.com/speaking/) across the globe covering
pragmatic, product-led approaches to building and scaling large front-ends for
long-running projects and products. I specialise in OOCSS, architecture,
scalability, front-end performance, and mobile and responsive web
design and development.

<blockquote>
    <p>I’ve got a crush on Harry Roberts…</p>
    <b class="source"><a href="http://unfinished.bz/11">Andrew Clarke</a></b>
</blockquote>

I am a two-time [net Awards
finalist](http://www.creativebloq.com/netmag/net-awards-2013-top-10-young-developers-4135725),
a member of [Smashing Magazine’s](http://www.smashingmagazine.com/) Experts
Panel, co-author of [a book on new approaches to web
development](http://www.smashingmagazine.com/smashing-book-4-new-perspectives/),
and lead and sole developer of the increasingly popular, open-source, OOCSS
framework [<cite>inuitcss</cite>](http://twitter.com/inuitcss). For a more
comprehensive overview, please see [my CV](http://csswizardry.com/csscv/).

Most importantly, I am <strong>available for hire</strong> to help people build
great products. <b>Workshops</b>, <b>consultancy</b>, <b>training</b>,
<b>advice</b>, <b>development</b>, and more are all available to clients of all
shapes and sizes, all over the world:

<a href="/work/" class="btn  btn--full  btn--large  btn--secondary"><strong>Hire
me.</strong></a>

---

## Contact

<dl>

    <dt>Twitter: <a href="https://twitter.com/csswizardry">@csswizardry</a></dt>
    <dd>For informal, quick contact and questions, feel free to fire me a
    Tweet!</dd>

    <dt>Email: <a href="mailto:harry@csswizardry.com">harry@csswizardry.com</a></dt>
    <dd>For longer enquiries and questions, send me an email.</dd>

    <dt>Skype: <a href="skype:csswizardry?call">csswizardry</a></dt>
    <dd>If you would like to add me on Skype, please be sure to include a
    detailed introduction and message with your request; this will help me
    quickly identify who is getting in touch and means I am more likely to
    accept.</dd>

</dl>

I am open to interesting and fun consulting gigs, short-term contracts,
workshops and any exciting projects working with nice people **starting in
2014**. If you think you have something we can work together on then [get in
touch](mailto:harry@csswizardry.com).
