---
comments: true
date: 2013-08-31 22:42:15
layout: post
slug: lets-work-together
title: Let’s work together
categories:
- Work
- CSS Wizardry
tag:
meta: I’m looking for amazing people to work with on great products.
---

Just over a month ago I handed in my notice at
[Sky](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BSkyB), where I’d spent the last
two-and-a-bit years as a Senior Developer. My time at Sky has been amazing; I
learned so much about big sites, architecture, scalability, performance, big
teams, maintenance, working on products and a lot, _lot_ more. Sky has been
great – and the most formative work of my career so far — so choosing to leave
was an incredibly difficult decision; one which took a long time to make. You
can read a lot more about that in my now infamous post from back July,
[<cite>Make it count</cite>](http://csswizardry.com/2013/07/make-it-count/).
Now, for the next chapter…

**I’m going it alone.**

I’ve spent five years working away on CSS Wizardry; writing articles, sharing
techniques and code and research and findings, creating and contributing to open
source projects, speaking at conferences and a whole lot more. Now I want to
make all this stuff work for me. I want to take all the things I do – and have
done – and do them for you, whoever and wherever you may be.

I want to work with talented teams – working on amazing products – all across
the globe. I want to work with nice people who care as much as I do about
building great things, and having fun in the process. I want people who take
their work, but not themselves, seriously. I want to work with you.

I am going to become available from the end of October, potentially with some
work already queued up, but regardless of your location, budget, requirements or
whatever, if you think we could work together then
[send me an email](harry@csswizardry.com). We’ll see what we can work out.

I have no lists of what I can and cannot do, nor do I have lists of what I will
and will not do, I’m open to pretty much everything. If you think your team or
product or app or service or agency or startup could benefit from anything I
could offer than just [get in touch](harry@csswizardry.com). One of the most
important things that I want to gain from this (ad)venture is _variety_. From
consulting to dev work, workshops to speaking, I want to work on varied things
for nice people.

## Manifesto

I’ve done a lot of thinking about the kinds of work I want to do, what I want to
get out of my ‘life’s work’. I came to realise that I am not as concerned about
the product or project itself, but about the people I work with. I am, by
nature, a _huge_ people person. I am incredibly sociable and enjoy the company
of nice people in any situation, be that personally or professionally.

I spent my time at Sky working primarily on online betting sites; I am not a
gambler/bettor, nor have I ever been. I’m not even interested in sports, but I
spent over two years of my life working on sports and betting sites. I learned
that I don’t necessarily need to love the product, I just have to love the team
and the challenges and work that the product provides me. As such, I scribbled
down some thoughts a few weeks ago which I’ve compiled into a manifesto of sorts
to outline the kind of things that matter to me:

### Work with people, not for people

I don’t want that ‘supplier vs. client’ thing. I want to work alongside people
who want to do great things. I will likely never be approached by the end
client; I’d like to work alongside other people in a collaborative manner; I’d
like to work with teams of engineers to help build and grow their ideas and
products; I would like to work with agencies to train and mentor their
developers and designers.

### Work with people who enjoy their work

I want to work with people who love their job as much as I do; things are so
much more fun that way. When you care a lot about your work it doesn’t feel like
work at all. That’s better for everyone.

### Work with talented people

I want to work with people who are good. I’m good at what I do but I need people
who are good at what they do to truly produce great things. People are seldom
great on their own, and working alongside people who inspire and push you will
bring out your best work. Plus, it’s just easier to work with people who are
competent.

### Work with passionate people

More important than talent, I feel, is _passion_. People who care will always
want to be better; people who are passionate will not stop, no matter how
talented they become. Of course, a combination of the two is unstoppable.
